# Questions 
1. How do I interpret user needs and implement them into a program? How does creating “user stories” help with this?
- Answer to question 1 <br/><br/>
2. How do I approach developing programs? What agile processes do I hope to incorporate into my future development work?
- Answer to question 2 <br/><br/>
3. What does it mean to be a good team member in software development?
- Answer to question 3 <br/><br/>

# Module 7: Sprint Review & Retrospective

# Demonstrate how the various roles on your Scrum-agile Team specifically contributed to the success of the SNHU Travel project

- Product Owner: The first team member that got with the SNHU travel project owners where they gather all the information that we needed to complete the project. They will regularly talk to the SNHU travel project owners to showcase updates to work and asking the SNHU travel owners how things are looking and getting more clarification on the project itself. <br/>
	
- Scrum Master: The project owner brings in the scrum master to get more clarification onto the project in which they will then reformat that information into understandable goals that the team will strive towards. They hold daily scrum meetings in which the team can get together and understand where the project stands and where the team members are able to clarify where they need help and where they can update the team when a task gets done. They also plan the sprints that the team is going to be trying to achieve to meet the timeline for the project. <br/>
	
- Tester: The tester works with the developer to test the SNHU travel project in which they will test everything and make sure that everything is working as intended. They made sure that the website and code is high quality and without issues in each sprint that we do and if there are any issues, they will work with the developers to make sure that the issues get fixed. <br/>
	
- Developer: The developers create the code that will make the front-end and back-end of the SNHU travel project is functioning, they work with the testers to make sure any code they create is high quality and free from bugs. They work to create to make the website is functional with all the features that the SNHU travel project owners wanted while also designing or changing the website itself to reflect these changes as well. <br/>
	
# Describe how a Scrum-agile approach to the SDLC helped each of the user stories come to completion.
The SDLC which is planning, define requirements, design & prototyping, software development, testing, deployment, and operations & maintenance. By following these steps, we can make sure tach each user story is fully completed and ready to move onto the next user story where we will do the same steps. <br/>
- Planning: This is where the project is evaluated, where cost, production, timetable goals, and where the creation of the project team and leadership structure. 
Define Requirements: Part of the planning phase where the requirements of the project get defined by finding out what the project is supposed to do and its technical requirements. <br/>
- Design & Prototyping: This is where the design how the software application will work by defining the architecture, user interface, platforms, programming, communications, and security of the project is decided. The prototyping goes with the design phase in which the team will prototype early examples of how the software will work and function. <br/>
- Software Development: This is where the project will be written by the development team assigned to the project where they will use version control and source code management to keep track of code changes while working towards hitting timetable goals of the project, and as well as creating the documentation needed for the project. </br>
- Testing: This is where the testers will make sure that everything is working as intended and if any bugs or glitches arise, they will report the findings back to the developers so that they can be aware of the issue and work towards getting the issues fixed so that the project is quality project that can be shipped out. <br/>
- Deployment: This is where the project will be made available to the users, the company will deploy the project through either automatic deployment or through a manual deployment. <br/>
- Operations & Maintenance: This is the final phase where the development cycle is finished, and the project is out and being used. Here is where to make sure that the project is maintained and if any bugs or issues popup down the line it can be fixed to make sure that the project continues to operate as intended and is working correctly. <br/>
# Describe how a Scrum-agile approach supported project completion when the project was interrupted and changed direction.
Earlier in the SNHU travel project we were asked to create a top 5 destination which at the start was a single page in which the end user could scroll down we had then been asked to create a top 5 destination list that showcases the number 1 destination and then the end-user could click either a next button to showcase the next destination or click back to view the previous destination.  <br/><br/>
By us doing a scrum-agile approach we were informed of the changes we needed to make because of the product owner and scrum master talking to the SNHU travel owners and since we were told we were able to easily change and adjust the program to match what the SNHU travel owners wanted. This made it so that the work we made didn’t go to waste like it would have been with a waterfall approach in which once we delivered the product, we would have been asked by the SNHU travel owners to change it to match what they wanted so by following the scrum-agile approach we saved time in the long run and satisfied the customers updated needs that they had. 

# Demonstrate your ability to communicate effectively with your team by providing samples of your communication. <br/><br/>
When we had to do our group discussions, I made sure to be the first person to post in the group discussion to start the pace of the discussion instead of waiting for the last minute to post. This gave me breathing room to wait for my other teammates to read what I had posted and to then discuss with me what concerns that they had. Once my team had posted a discussion, I responded to them within the timeframe that we were given so that we have plenty of time to discuss back in forth with the prompt we were given.  By making sure that everything is completed on time or started early it as well as responding to my teammates responses it allowed us to finish what we needed go get done in a faster time, and by doing it early we were able to double check our work to make sure what we were doing meet the requirements and was quality. <br/><br/>

# Evaluate the organizational tools and Scrum-agile principles that helped your team be successful
By using JIRA which is used to manage our work for the SNHU travel project we were able to create stories where we assigned points to these stories to assign how long it will take to complete the project, by following scrum agile principles we were able to keep track of our progress and see what was needed to be done, we didn’t just have stories in JIRA but we also had our bug reports there as well which helped us to track where issues where and how critical the bug is to be fixed. <br/><br/>
Another scrum-agile principle that we used was our team having daily scrum meeting where we came together for 15 minutes a day to discuss where we are with the work we were doing and if we ran into any issues, we also updated our tasks during the scrum meeting since we had the entire team there to discuss what was finished and what was needed to be done. <br/><br/>

# Assess the effectiveness of the Scrum-agile approach for the SNHU Travel project.
The scrum-agile approach was very helpful to have for the SNHU Travel project, especially when we ran into changes that the SNHU Travel project owner wanted us to change in it and by using Scrum-agile approach we were able to tackle the changes with minimal interruption in our progress. The daily scrum meetings were also helpful in finding out where my teammates progress was and if they had run into any issues that I could help them resolve or work with them to get certain tasks done, we were also able to update our tasks onto our task using JIRA during the meeting to move tasks from either started to complete or to show who is working on what task. <br/><br/>

If we had used the waterfall approach for this project we would have run into issues with testing the project as well as when the SNHU Travel project owners changed the requirements that they wanted to be displayed with the waterfall approach we would have been almost finished with the project when we started doing testing and then gone to the SNHU Travel project owners to showcase the finished product and then to be told they wanted to go with a different direction than what we were originally told. <br/><br/>

Using Scrum-Agile approaches we were able to be flexible for when the client changed requirements, while also doing more testing to make sure that the product we released was a quality product. There are downsides by using the Scrum-Agile approach because you can never know when the clients would want to change the requirements again pushing the project even further back and could cause the project to get bloated too much and making it stagnant, a good product owner and scrum master should be able to stop this from happening but you can run into bad product owners and scrum masters that don’t stop this causing the project to stall and for moral in the team to drop since you feel like the project is never getting done. <br/><br/>

